###
Salinization of freshwater ecosystems is a global problem affecting many regions worldwide and can co-occur
with pesticides in agricultural regions. Given that both stressors are potent to affect macroinvertebrate com-
munities, their effects could interact.
We investigated the effects of salinity and pesticides at 24 sites in an agricultural region of southern Victoria,
South-East Australia. We used distance-based redundancy analysis to determine the influence of pesticides,
salinity and other environmental variables on the composition of macroinvertebrate communities.
Salinity and pesticide toxicity had a statistically significant effect on communities as had the substrate com-
position and the percentage of pool and riffle sections in the sampled stream reaches. We did not find evi-
dence for interactive effects between salinity and pesticides, i.e. the effect of one of these variables did not
depend on the level of the other.
Nevertheless, our results show that salinization and exposure to pesticides can be major factors for the struc-
ture of macroinvertebrate communities in agricultural regions. Pesticide toxicity acted on a lower taxonomic
level compared to salinity, potentially indicating evolutionary adaptation to salinity stress.

All species are hierarchically related to one another, and we use taxonomic
names to label the nodes in this hierarchy. Taxonomic data is becoming
increasingly available on the web, but scientists need a way to access it in a
programmatic fashion that’s easy and reproducible. We have developed taxize,
an open-source software package (freely available from
http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/taxize/index.html ) for the R language.
taxize provides simple, programmatic access to taxonomic data for 13 data
sources around the web. We discuss the need for a taxonomic toolbelt in R,
and outline a suite of use cases for which taxize is ideally suited (including a full
workflow as an appendix). The taxize package facilitates open and
reproducible science by allowing taxonomic data collection to be done in the
open-source R platform.

Salinization of rivers resulting from industrial discharge or road-deicing can adversely affect macroinvertebrates.
Trait-based approaches are a promising tool in ecological monitoring and may perform better than taxonomy-
based approaches. However only little is known how and which biological traits are affected by salinization.
We investigated the effects of anthropogenic salinization on macroinvertebrate communities and biological traits
in the Werra River, Germany and compared the taxonomic and trait response.
We found a change in macroinvertebrate community and trait composition. Communities at saline sites
were characterized by the three exotic species Gammarus tigrinus, Apocorophium lacustre and Potamopyrgus
antipodarum. The frequencies of trait modalities long life cycle duration, respiration by gill, ovoviviparity, shred-
der and multivoltinism were statistically significantly increased at saline sites.
The trait-based ordination resulted in a higher explained variance than the taxonomy-based ordination, indicat-
ing a better performance of the trait-based approach, resulting in a better discrimination between saline and non-
saline sites. Our results are in general agreement with other studies from Europe, indicating a trait convergence
for saline streams, being dominated by the traits ovoviviparity and multivoltinism. Three further traits (respira-
tion by gill, life cycle duration and shredders) responded strongly to salinization, but this may primarily be attrib-
uted to the dominance of a single invasive species, G. tigrinus, at the saline sites in the Werra River.

Mesocosm experiments that study the eco-
logical impact of chemicals are often analysed using the
multivariate method ‘Principal Response Curves’ (PRCs).
Recently, the extension of generalised linear models
(GLMs) to multivariate data was introduced as a tool to
analyse community data in ecology. Moreover, data ag-
gregation techniques that can be analysed with univariate
statistics have been proposed. The aim of this study was to
compare their performance. We compiled macroinverte-
brate abundance datasets of mesocosm experiments de-
signed for studying the effect of various organic chemicals,
mainly pesticides, and re-analysed them. GLMs for mul-
tivariate data and selected aggregated endpoints were
compared to PRCs regarding their performance and
potential to identify affected taxa. In addition, we analysed
the inter-replicate variability encountered in the studies.
Mesocosm experiments characterised by a higher taxa
richness of the community and/or lower taxonomic
resolution showed a greater inter-replicate variability,
whereas variability decreased the more zero counts were
encountered in the samples. GLMs for multivariate data
performed equally well as PRCs regarding the community
response. However, compared to first axis PRCs, GLMs
provided a better indication of individual taxa responding
to treatments, as separate models are fitted to each taxon.
Data aggregation methods performed considerably poorer
compared to PRCs. Multivariate community data, which
are generated during mesocosm experiments, should be
analysed using multivariate methods to reveal treatment-
related community-level responses. GLMs for multivariate
data are an alternative to the widely used PRCs.

Ecotoxicologists often encounter count and pro-
portion data that are rarely normally distributed. To meet
the assumptions of the linear model, such data are usually 
transformed or non-parametric methods are used if the
transformed data still violate the assumptions. Generalized
linear models (GLMs) allow to directly model such data,
without the need for transformation. Here, we compare the
performance of two parametric methods, i.e., (1) the linear
model (assuming normality of transformed data), (2) GLMs
(assuming a Poisson, negative binomial, or binomially dis-
tributed response), and (3) non-parametric methods. We
simulated typical data mimicking low replicated ecotoxicological 
experiments of two common data types (counts and
proportions from counts). We compared the performance of
the different methods in terms of statistical power and Type
I error for detecting a general treatment effect and deter-
mining the lowest observed effect concentration (LOEC). In
addition, we outlined differences on a real-world mesocosm
data set. For count data, we found that the quasi-Poisson
model yielded the highest power. The negative binomial
GLM resulted in increased Type I errors, which could
be fixed using the parametric bootstrap. For proportions,
binomial GLMs performed better than the linear model,
except to determine LOEC at extremely low sample sizes.
The compared non-parametric methods had generally lower
power. We recommend that counts in one-factorial experi-
ments should be analyzed using quasi-Poisson models and
proportions from counts by binomial GLMs. These methods
should become standard in ecotoxicology.


### 
 Effects of anthropogenic and environmental stressors on freshwater communities can propagate to ecosystem
functions and may in turn impede ecosystem services. We investigated potential shifts in ecosystem functions
that provide energy for freshwater ecosystems due to pesticides and salinity in 24 sites in streams of southeast
Australia. First, effects on allochthonous organic matter (AOM) breakdown using three different substrates
(leaves, cotton strips, wood sticks) in coarse and fine bags were investigated. Second, we examined effects on
stream metabolism that delivers information on the ecosystem functions of gross primary production and
ecosystem respiration. We found up to a fourfold reduction in AOM breakdown due to exposure to pesticides
and salinity, where both stressors contributed approximately equally to the reduction. The effect was additive
as, no interaction or correlation between the two stressors was found. Leaf breakdown responded strongly
and exclusively to exposure to pesticides and salinity, whereas cotton strip breakdown was less sensitive and
responded also to other stressors such as nutrients. No functional redundancy for the effects of pesticides and
salinity on leaf breakdown was observed. For wood stick breakdown, no relationship to environmental
gradients was found, however, the sample size was lower. We did not detect effects of pesticides or salinity on
gross primary production or ecosystem respiration. A reduction in AOM breakdown by pesticides and salinity
may impair the ecosystem services of food provision and possibly water purification. Hence, future studies
should examine the spatial extent of these effects.

Climate change and pollution are considered as major drivers of biodiversity loss. Climate change is a
global multi-stressor, whereas pollution predominantly acts on the local scale. Organisms traits provide
mechanistic links between biotic responses and stressors. We reviewed and analyzed the literature on
the responses of vertebrates, invertebrates, microorganisms and plants traits to climate change (437
studies) and pollution (121 studies), to assess whether there was uniformity (i.e. convergence) in the
responses of traits to the multi-stressors. For climate change, the traits related to tolerance responded
uniformly across taxonomic groups, indicating trait convergence. For pollution, the low number of
studies hampered a comparison across taxonomic groups. However, aquatic invertebrates that are
tolerant, or exhibit high dispersal or reproduction capacities increased in response to pollution, whereas
body mass and size increased in phytoplankton and fish, respectively. We provide a set of traits that have
the potential to predict ecosystem-wide effects of climate change and pollution.

The environmental safety of Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. israelensis (Bti) is still controversial, mainly because most
of the previous field studies on its undesired effects were spatially limited and did not address the relationship
between community similarity and application time and frequency. No general statement can therefore be
drawn on the usage conditions of Bti that insure protection of non-target organisms.
The present study was conducted in eight sites distributed over the main geographical sectors where mosquito
control is implemented in mainland France and Corsica. Changes in non-target aquatic invertebrates were
followed at elapsed time after repeated applications of two Bti formulations (VectoBac® WDG or 12AS) up to
four consecutive years. We examined the influence of both larvicide treatments and environmental variables on
community dynamics and dissimilarity between treated and control areas. As it can be argued that chironomids
are the most vulnerable group of non-target invertebrates, we scrutinised potential Bti-related effects on the dy-
namics of their community.
The use of VectoBac® WDG and 12AS in coastal and continental wetlands had no immediate or long-term detect-
able effect on the taxonomic structure and taxa abundance of non-target aquatic invertebrate communities, in-
cluding chironomids. This applied to the main habitats where mosquito larvae occur, regardless of their
geographic location. Flooding, whose frequency and duration depend on local meteorological and hydrological
conditions, was identified as the main environmental driver of invertebrate community dynamics.
Our findings add support to the environmental safety of currently available Bti formulations when following rec-
ommended application rates and best mosquito control practices.

Given the multitude of pesticides used in agriculture, adjacent streams are typically exposed to pesticide mix-
tures. Previous studies analysed the ecological risks of a few pesticide mixtures or were limited to an individual
region or crop, whereas a large scale analysis of pesticide mixtures is missing. We analysed routine monitoring
data from Germany, France, the Netherlands and the USA comprising a total of 4532 sites and 56,084 sampling
occasions with the aim to identify the most frequently detected pesticides, their metabolites and mixtures. The
most frequently detected compounds were dominated by herbicides and their metabolites. Mixtures mostly
comprised of two up to five compounds, whereas mixtures in the USA and France had clearly less compounds
than those of Germany and the Netherlands. The number of detected pesticides and thereby the size of mixtures
is positively correlated to the number of measured pesticides (r = 0.57). In contrast, a low relationship was found
to the ratio of agricultural areas within the catchment (r = 0.17), and no relationship was found to the size of the
catchment (r = 0.06). Overall, our study provides priority mixtures for different countries that may be used for
future ecotoxicological studies to improve risk assessment for stream ecosystems.
