Salinization of freshwater ecosystems is a global problem affecting many regions worldwide and can co-occur
with pesticides in agricultural regions. Given that both stressors are potent to affect macroinvertebrate com-
munities, their effects could interact.
We investigated the effects of salinity and pesticides at 24 sites in an agricultural region of southern Victoria,
South-East Australia. We used distance-based redundancy analysis to determine the influence of pesticides,
salinity and other environmental variables on the composition of macroinvertebrate communities.
Salinity and pesticide toxicity had a statistically significant effect on communities as had the substrate com-
position and the percentage of pool and riffle sections in the sampled stream reaches. We did not find evi-
dence for interactive effects between salinity and pesticides, i.e. the effect of one of these variables did not
depend on the level of the other.
Nevertheless, our results show that salinization and exposure to pesticides can be major factors for the struc-
ture of macroinvertebrate communities in agricultural regions. Pesticide toxicity acted on a lower taxonomic
level compared to salinity, potentially indicating evolutionary adaptation to salinity stress.

All species are hierarchically related to one another, and we use taxonomic
names to label the nodes in this hierarchy. Taxonomic data is becoming
increasingly available on the web, but scientists need a way to access it in a
programmatic fashion that’s easy and reproducible. We have developed taxize,
an open-source software package (freely available from
http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/taxize/index.html ) for the R language.
taxize provides simple, programmatic access to taxonomic data for 13 data
sources around the web. We discuss the need for a taxonomic toolbelt in R,
and outline a suite of use cases for which taxize is ideally suited (including a full
workflow as an appendix). The taxize package facilitates open and
reproducible science by allowing taxonomic data collection to be done in the
open-source R platform.

Salinization of rivers resulting from industrial discharge or road-deicing can adversely affect macroinvertebrates.
Trait-based approaches are a promising tool in ecological monitoring and may perform better than taxonomy-
based approaches. However only little is known how and which biological traits are affected by salinization.
We investigated the effects of anthropogenic salinization on macroinvertebrate communities and biological traits
in the Werra River, Germany and compared the taxonomic and trait response.
We found a change in macroinvertebrate community and trait composition. Communities at saline sites
were characterized by the three exotic species Gammarus tigrinus, Apocorophium lacustre and Potamopyrgus
antipodarum. The frequencies of trait modalities long life cycle duration, respiration by gill, ovoviviparity, shred-
der and multivoltinism were statistically significantly increased at saline sites.
The trait-based ordination resulted in a higher explained variance than the taxonomy-based ordination, indicat-
ing a better performance of the trait-based approach, resulting in a better discrimination between saline and non-
saline sites. Our results are in general agreement with other studies from Europe, indicating a trait convergence
for saline streams, being dominated by the traits ovoviviparity and multivoltinism. Three further traits (respira-
tion by gill, life cycle duration and shredders) responded strongly to salinization, but this may primarily be attrib-
uted to the dominance of a single invasive species, G. tigrinus, at the saline sites in the Werra River.

Mesocosm experiments that study the eco-
logical impact of chemicals are often analysed using the
multivariate method ‘Principal Response Curves’ (PRCs).
Recently, the extension of generalised linear models
(GLMs) to multivariate data was introduced as a tool to
analyse community data in ecology. Moreover, data ag-
gregation techniques that can be analysed with univariate
statistics have been proposed. The aim of this study was to
compare their performance. We compiled macroinverte-
brate abundance datasets of mesocosm experiments de-
signed for studying the effect of various organic chemicals,
mainly pesticides, and re-analysed them. GLMs for mul-
tivariate data and selected aggregated endpoints were
compared to PRCs regarding their performance and
potential to identify affected taxa. In addition, we analysed
the inter-replicate variability encountered in the studies.
Mesocosm experiments characterised by a higher taxa
richness of the community and/or lower taxonomic
resolution showed a greater inter-replicate variability,
whereas variability decreased the more zero counts were
encountered in the samples. GLMs for multivariate data
performed equally well as PRCs regarding the community
response. However, compared to first axis PRCs, GLMs
provided a better indication of individual taxa responding
to treatments, as separate models are fitted to each taxon.
Data aggregation methods performed considerably poorer
compared to PRCs. Multivariate community data, which
are generated during mesocosm experiments, should be
analysed using multivariate methods to reveal treatment-
related community-level responses. GLMs for multivariate
data are an alternative to the widely used PRCs.

Ecotoxicologists often encounter count and pro-
portion data that are rarely normally distributed. To meet
the assumptions of the linear model, such data are usually 
transformed or non-parametric methods are used if the
transformed data still violate the assumptions. Generalized
linear models (GLMs) allow to directly model such data,
without the need for transformation. Here, we compare the
performance of two parametric methods, i.e., (1) the linear
model (assuming normality of transformed data), (2) GLMs
(assuming a Poisson, negative binomial, or binomially dis-
tributed response), and (3) non-parametric methods. We
simulated typical data mimicking low replicated ecotoxicological 
experiments of two common data types (counts and
proportions from counts). We compared the performance of
the different methods in terms of statistical power and Type
I error for detecting a general treatment effect and deter-
mining the lowest observed effect concentration (LOEC). In
addition, we outlined differences on a real-world mesocosm
data set. For count data, we found that the quasi-Poisson
model yielded the highest power. The negative binomial
GLM resulted in increased Type I errors, which could
be fixed using the parametric bootstrap. For proportions,
binomial GLMs performed better than the linear model,
except to determine LOEC at extremely low sample sizes.
The compared non-parametric methods had generally lower
power. We recommend that counts in one-factorial experi-
ments should be analyzed using quasi-Poisson models and
proportions from counts by binomial GLMs. These methods
should become standard in ecotoxicology.
